A conversation with damon chen
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/a-conversation-with-damon-chen/
Damon Chen is the founder of Testimonial.to, a social proof tool. The company has recently reached $400,000 in annual recurring revenue. Chen talks about how he managed such growth while living in one of the most expensive places you could build a business in.
 
A conversation with daniel vassallo
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/a-conversation-with-daniel-vassallo/
Daniel Vassallo is a writer, founder, and person with very strong opinions. He is building a portfolio of small bets in public, on Twitter. He talks about the importance of making money in diversified ways. He also talks about how to structure your life around being a founder.
 
A conversation with michele hansen
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/a-conversation-with-michele-hansen/
Michele Hansen is the co-founder of Geocodio, an indie SaaS business in the world of mapping and geolocation. We talk about finding the right time to commit to a business, learning when to say no, finding your niche, and learning languages.
 
A unified voice staying consistent when you grow
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/a-unified-voice-staying-consistent-when-you-grow/
At a certain point, it won’t be just you talking to your customers anymore. Your employees will be the first touch-points for customer interactions. If you want to have a company that is consistent and aligned, you’ll need to be the conductor of that chorus. Set the tone by explaining the “Why” and the ‘How’ in your own authentic voice.
 
Accountability systems for founders
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/accountability-systems-for-founders/
Some days, I don’t feel like doing anything entrepreneurial at all. It’s easy to take a break from producing things. The hard part is to get back to doing it. Many founders, no matter if they are solopreneurs or part of a team, need to build a structure that allows them to compensate.
 
All that glitters is not gold navigating bootstrapping advice
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/all-that-glitters-is-not-gold-navigating-bootstrapping-advice/
Not all startup advice is equally suited for bootstrappers and indie hackers. Some founders who share their knowledge come from a VC-funded background. Others come from industries that might have very different internal dynamics. It is often the context of the advice that’s more interesting than the advice itself.
 
At a crossroads the different kinds of exits
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/at-a-crossroads-the-different-kinds-of-exits/
Companies get acquired for a few reasons. Depending on why someone wants to buy your company, the deal and the whole process of selling the company may be radically different. Usually, that money arrives in two parts: one directly when you hand over the company, and another when the transition is completed. Be prepared to receive different offers from different parties.
 
Audience building and relatable content
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/audience-building-and-relatable-content/
The tone of the content you put out there plays a significant role in how it is received. The trick to standing out is to flavor your content with your unique personality. Use the words, terms, and metaphors that your audience is already using in their communities. Give people a chance to see who you are as a person, not a person.
 
Audience building is not community building
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/audience-building-is-not-community-building/
Entrepreneurs often confuse the difference between audience-building and creating communities. When you use the term “community-building,” make sure it actually refers to connecting people. When we trick ourselves into believing we are doing selfless work when we’re actually motivated by a selfish rationale, we are also tricking people into thinking we are good.
 
Audience building through podcasting
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/audience-building-through-podcasting/
Hosting and appearing on podcasts has changed my life and greatly impacted my audience-building. You don’t need to be the most successful person in your field to be invited onto shows. Being featured on a show will establish your reputation as someone worth a target audience.
 
Audience discovery the importance of budget
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/audience-discovery-the-importance-of-budget/
Many founders struggle with a vital part of the Audience Discovery process: making sure your future customers are willing to pay for solutions to their problems. Not everyone who has a problem is willing to open their wallet for a solution. It's the old discussion of the main dish vs. side dish: what’s the most critical thing you can help people with?
 
Audience first is not just building an audience
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/audience-first-is-not-just-building-an-audience/
“audience-first” is mostly used to describe the strategy of building a following before you build a product. “Audience- first’ doesn’t mean that you should “build an audience first” It means that you Should ‘build with and build for an audience’
 
Audience graduation
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/audience-graduation/
When you build an audience, you will run into this phenomenon as well. Some audiences are more permanent than others. Some people just move on. You don’t have to make a permanent choice here. Every permanent audience was at some point transient. Only hard work and a structured approach can shift an audience from high graduation rates into low ones.
 
Avoid vanity metrics
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/avoid-vanity-metrics/

 
Avoiding the validation trap
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/avoiding-the-validation-trap/
When founders talk about validation, we often engage in wishful thinking. We say that we want to validate an idea, an audience, or a problem, but in reality, we hope to find a way to be sure. Entrepreneurship involves the risk of failure at all times.
 
Be the kindest person in the room
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/be-the-kindest-person-in-the-room/
Most founders build their businesses in stealth mode, afraid to be called out or receive the wrong kind of attention. Is holding back and fiercely protecting your secrets a sustainable way to build something that truly serves and empowers others? It’s time to stop hiding in the shadows. We all should aim to be the kindest person in the room.
 
Being imperfect in public
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/being-imperfect-in-public/
When I launched my Twitter course Find your Following earlier this week, I realized that my launch Tweet had a typo. I chose to embrace this imperfection and roll with it. Within the first 24 hours, the course sold almost $5000’s worth. Nobody talked about the typo. Everyone enjoyed my marketing video.
 
Being small is a benefit how to leverage being a bootstrapper
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/being-small-is-a-benefit-how-to-leverage-being-a-bootstrapper/
Bootstrapped founders and their businesses are different from other enterprises in a few key ways, and each of those can be used to your maximum advantage. Bootstrappers have skin in the game and can’t hide behind a corporate facade. Customers understand that once they are dealing with a bootstrapped, they can expect more than “business as usual”
 
Blame the market
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/blame-the-market/
Many unsuccessful founders believe their business failed because of a “market problem.” They think it’s “the market’ that wasn’t ready for their product or that ‘the market made the wrong choice. This line of thinking is a dangerous —and most of the time completely false— perspective to take. Marketing starts long before you advertise your product.
 
Build a defensible indie business
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/build-a-defensible-indie-business/
A moat, or competitive advantage, lets your business stands out from the competition and is seen as a valuable acquisition. Warren Buffet coined the term moat and used it to refer to a company’s competitive advantage. A moat might be a patent, a proprietary technology, a network effect, or a brand.
 
Build for value not for applause product management under heavy constraints
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/build-for-value-not-for-applause-product-management-under-heavy-constraints/
Everything you do in your bootstrapped business should have a meaningful impact on moving your company towards a state of stability and growth. Bells and whistles are the least of your concerns when you’re trying to get to profitability. As bootstrappers, we have no time to deal with things that don’t provide value to our customers.
 
Building a sellable business with andrew gazdecki
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/building-a-sellable-business-with-andrew-gazdecki/
Andrew Gazdecki is a pillar of the founder community and himself founder of the acquisition platform, formerly known as MicroAcquire. Besides organizing millions of dollars worth of acquisitions every month, Andrew is a true teacher. His content on building software businesses is spectacularly useful.
 
Building an authentic personal brand with kp
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/building-an-authentic-personal-brand-with-kp/
KP has been a pillar of the indie hacker community, and we talk about how to involve yourself, empower others, and eventually build a community around your personal brand and the things you care about. The idea generally came from finding that I’m getting the same seven to eight questions on my DMs or my email. And the information of that step of the journey of a founder seems to be missing.
 
Building in public and legacy
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/building-in-public-and-legacy/
Building in public is a shortcut to legacy. Building in public turns you into a teacher for your peers, not just for admirers of your success. If you talk about your business decisions, you’ll help people struggling with their own choices. Even if you just found a new shortcut in a software tool, sharing that might speed up the days of hundreds, if not thousands of others.
 
Building in public and negativity
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/building-in-public-and-negativity/
Building in public is scary, and having strong feelings about it is perfectly fine. But I don’t believe that toiling away in secrecy is the safer path. Hiding your work and building in private is the risky approach to entrepreneurship. If you share your building journey, people will point out mistakes as soon as they happen.
 
Building in public balancing building and sharing
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/building-in-public-balancing-building-and-sharing/
Building and sharing are not distinct but symbiotic, as they establish a feedback cycle. While you teach something, others will learn and engage with you. From that, you will learn more about them and their needs, triggering opportunities to build. The balance between doing and talking is something unique to your journey. Sometimes, you spend days, maybe weeks building, and other times, you share and interact.
 
Building in public how radical transparency hurts founders
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/building-in-public-how-radical-transparency-hurts-founders/
Building in Public is an opportunity for founders to build long-term relationships with their peers and prospective customers. Asking for radical transparency from the get-go is a dangerous form of purism that causes damage to our community. There are many ways of sharing ‘safe’ data for every founder to decide.
 
Building in public how to build a minipoly
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/building-in-public-how-to-build-a-minipoly/
A minipoly is a niche brand monopoly based on your reputation within a niche community. Minipolists are always practicing their craft and contribute to the process of knowledge generation and distribution in their fields. Practicing what you teach is central to keeping your reputational advantage. The more you put out the more you get out of your own interest, the further you strengthen your status as an expert for X.
 
Building in public maintaining a positive self image
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/building-in-public-maintaining-a-positive-self-image/
Building in public is not always easy, often caused by problems with our self-image. We should talk about comparing ourselves with others, handling imposter syndrome, how to deal with criticism, and how to respond to advice. These four are the major causes of negative self- image.
 
Building in public oversharing
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/building-in-public-oversharing/
Oversharing is the act of sharing either too much or the wrong content. You’re oversharing whenever you share something that isn’t creating mutual benefit for you and your audience. There are three distinct kinds of oversharing: the Saturated Feed, the Self-Sabotage Share and the Audience-Message Disconnect.
 
Building in public taking breaks
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/building-in-public-taking-breaks/
Building in public is a performative act, not something that “just happens.” When you act in public, either by sharing, teaching, or engaging with someone else, you expend energy. Relentlessly performing in public isn’t something you can do forever without it affecting your mental health.
 
Building in public what to share at which stage of your journey
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/building-in-public-what-to-share-at-which-stage-of-your-journey/
There is no recipe for success while building in public, but there are a lot of tried and trusted ingredients. What and how you communicate with your Build in Public audience depends on which stage you’re currently in. Your audience will welcome certain kinds of messages at any point during your journey.
 
Building profitable communities with rosie sherry
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/building-profitable-communities-with-rosie-sherry/
Rosie Sherry, proprietor of Rosieland and community empowerment expert. Rosie is a big believer in unschooling, the kind of homeschooling that isn’t based on a set curriculum like regular school. One thing that stood out to me is how Rosie understands the value of a community, of any size.
 
Building software products as a non technical founder with laura elizabeth
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/building-software-products-as-a-non-technical-founder-with-laura-elizabeth/
Laura Elizabeth co-hosts the Non-Tech Founders’ Podcast and runs several products as a non-technical founder. We talk about outsourcing, trust, and building an audience around your business. Laura: I feel like it’s really helpful to developers because we’re not gonna be talking about things that typical developer podcasts are talking about.
 
Burnout
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/burnout/
Danielle Cevallos: Entrepreneur burnout is affecting a lot of people, if not everyone around you. She says you are not alone and that taking a step back from social media might be a way to calm your stress levels. She suggests a digital detox approach to reduce your anxieties and step away from your social media for a few days.
 
Business models for a calm saas business
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/business-models-for-a-calm-saas-business/
There are a few vectors that impact how the subscription model will work in a SaaS business. The pricing model you choose, the kind of business you run, and the reality of your target market are key. Most low-touch SAAS businesses offer between two and three tiers of membership.
 
Calm business misconceptions
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/calm-business-misconceptions/
Many entrepreneurs think running a calm business is either theoretically impossible or at least impractical. The trick with calmness is that it’s an applied process. A founder who wants a sustainable and controllable business establishes procedures and internal guidelines that allow them to face unexpected challenges without panicking.
 
Choose your own adventure creator curator commentator or connector
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/choose-your-own-adventure-creator-curator-commentator-or-connector/
On social media, we can leverage one of four major roles: creators, curators, commentators, and connectors. Focusing on one of these roles will provide a clear path toward building an equally focused audience. Let’s dive into the opportunities and risks of making that choice and sticking with it.
 
Churn retention and revenue
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/churn-retention-and-revenue/
On average, a 5% increase in customer retention leads to a 25%-95% rise in profits. If it can impact revenue so significantly, it is definitely worth your time to build a company that focusses on customer retention. The chance of selling to an existing customer is 60%-70%, whereas a new prospect only buys 5%-20% of the time.
 
Co founder
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/co-founder/
This article is part of The Preparation Stage section of Zero to Sold: How to Start, Run, and Sell a Bootstrapped Business. Read the rest of the article to learn how to start a business with a co-founder. The author shares his learnings from starting several bootstrapped companies with co-founders.
 
Colleen schnettler stair stepping into saas
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/colleen-schnettler-stair-stepping-into-saas/
Colleen Schnettler, co-founder of Hammerstone and build-in-public podcaster. We talk about getting bootstrapper-compatible funding, juggling way too many projects, and selling a business when you know it’s time to move on.
 
Competition isnt always a business
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/competition-isnt-always-a-business/
Many entrepreneurs overlook many interesting — and often critical — competitors in their chosen markets. The most threatening competitor in the online teaching space is spreadsheets. When people need to be told that they have a problem, getting them to use your solution requires more work than selling it to those who are already looking.
 
Consistency accountability and perseverance
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/consistency-accountability-and-perseverance/
Two years ago, Danielle and I sold our productivity SaaS FeedbackPanda. After selling the business, Danielle decided to start a blog and a podcast. She wanted to give back and allow others to benefit from what she had come to learn. She also wanted to externalize the motivation for being consistent to an audience of eager readers.
 
Consulting in public
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/consulting-in-public/
Rand Fishkin recently asked Patrick Campbell —who just sold ProfitWell for $200 million— to help him with their pricing. The conversation was published as part of Louis Nicholls’ podcast Send and Grow. Consulting in public exposes the consultant’s expertise while giving the client reach and community awareness.
 
Continuous validation
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/continuous-validation/
Continuous validation is the practice of assuming that every product is an iteration of trying to solve a shape-shifting problem. If you’re continuously validating your business, you will avoid making big pivots or becoming outdated. The most important part is to reach out to your customers and talk about the benefits of your product.
 
Conversations are at the core of engagement
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/conversations-are-at-the-core-of-engagement/
The easiest way to understand a community is to consider it to be one extensive narrative, an epic story, that consists of many smaller conversations. The moment you chime in, the moment you contribute to these narratives and themes, you become interesting. You will find this place by participating in all the conversations of your niche.
 
Copycats and endurance
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/copycats-and-endurance/
Copycats copy the outside, the interface, the product, but never the business. They make a shallow copy, a lossy copy. Copycats rarely have any meaningful insight into the market their copied product will serve. They don’t understand that their founder brand is essential to their long-term success.
 
Creative commitments with jay clouse
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/creative-commitments-with-jay-clouse/
Jay Clouse is a creative entrepreneur and all-around amazing human being. As a solo creator, what makes a personal brand work, and how important authenticity is in building an audience that respects you. We’re talking about keeping it all together on the Bootstrapped Founder Podcast.
 
Customer exploration seeing through your customers eyes
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/customer-exploration-seeing-through-your-customers-eyes/
This article is part of The Stability Stage section of Zero to Sold: How to Start, Run, and Sell a Bootstrapped Business. At this stage of your business, you have a mostly mature product that is used by many customers. You can expect that for most of their use cases, it is good enough. But instead of guessing, set aside some time every few months to do some customer exploration.
 
Customer lock in and insurance features
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/customer-lock-in-and-insurance-features/
Permanent.link is a service aimed at authors. Authors want their links to be hosted on a domain they control. Having the links on their own domains meant much less of a lock-in. The service is not a SaaS project that people will use every day like you would use.
 
Customer retention how to keep them around
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/customer-retention-how-to-keep-them-around/
Customer retention is more important than getting new customers, as churn is the silent killer. Showing your customers how much they benefit from your product will make them stick around longer. Your customer lifetime value is inextricably linked to the perceived value of your customers. Creating voluntary dependency is best accomplished by creating something that your customers want to depend on.
 
Determining the size of your saas market
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/determining-the-size-of-your-saas-market/
The easiest way to find out how big your B2B audience is is by purchasing industry reports from reputable sources. Consumer-focussed companies have a harder time there, as information will be abundant but very hard to validate. Reading up on the history and evolution of an industry before doing audience size research is highly recommended.
 
Diversify your creator portfolio
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/diversify-your-creator-portfolio/
Many successful creators end up having a podcast, a newsletter, a YouTube channel, and a solid online presence. By diversifying your portfolio, you can reach a wider audience, stabilize your income streams, and protect yourself from the ups and downs of any one platform. One way to diversify your portfolio is to reuse content between formats. By repurposing your most popular YouTube videos into written articles, your work can reach new audiences.
 
Door to door to 2m arr with daniel fayle
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/door-to-door-to-2m-arr-with-daniel-fayle/
Daniel Fayle is the co-founder of Chekkit, a business that he and his team have bootstrapped to $2 million in ARR. The business is a text messaging wifi marketing product. Fayle talks about finding the right vertical to get started, how to do things that don't scale, and what choices need to be made to get a business to seven figures.
 
Early tech choices and analysis paralysis
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/early-tech-choices-and-analysis-paralysis/
An MVP is a validation machine. It’s not your future product. Scalability is irrelevant for most validation prototypes. The thing I build today is not the product I will sell in five years. The whole point is to build something simple that can do the job “well enough”
 
Entrepreneurial anti patterns what to avoid when youre starting a business
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/entrepreneurial-anti-patterns-what-to-avoid-when-youre-starting-a-business/
The number one fear of every entrepreneur is that someone will create a clone of their business. When you clone a business, you clone what you can see. You have no idea what the future holds, and can’t foresee what problems you’ll face. Not speaking the language of your customers will hamper your efforts to create a brand.
 
Entrepreneurial strategies anti patterns for a calm saas business
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/entrepreneurial-strategies-anti-patterns-for-a-calm-saas-business/
Picking the right approach to starting your SaaS will make the journey much calmer. To some, a business growing 10% yearly is more than enough. Others get nervous if they don’t hit a monthly growth of 10%. That’s a huge difference, and it created notably different businesses.
 
Entrepreneurship job security and wealth creation
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/entrepreneurship-job-security-and-wealth-creation/
The debate around “entrepreneurship versus employment” is often framed as “opportunity versus security.” But is that really the case? How much security can you find in a position of employment? And how insecure is the life of an entrepreneur?
 
Expanding your opportunity surface
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/expanding-your-opportunity-surface/
Everyone has an Opportunity Surface. Your opportunity surface is the sum of all the opportunities available to you. The larger the opportunity surface, the more chances you have to win. Entrepreneurs can use this concept in ways that will benefit the growth of their businesses, relationships, and personal brand.
 
Fear setting
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/fear-setting/
Fear-setting is an exercise in seeing the bigger picture. For each fear you have, envision the worst and define your nightmare outcome. Once you define it and reflect on it, it loses its power. You’ll find that even though it might be a painful experience, you'll come out of it encouraged and renewed.
 
Find business ideas on social media
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/find-business-ideas-on-social-media/
In this article, we look at the prerequisites for ideas, the validation signals in our timelines. If we want to come up with ideas with a higher-than-moonshot chance of becoming profitable, we need to get the basics right before we dive into “disrupting our industry”
 
Finding a market to build a saas
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/finding-a-market-to-build-a-saas/
A bootstrapped business works best when it starts out in a niche. Most companies will do really well by just staying there. But that initial audience is one of the most important things to carefully select. It allowed us to focus on a clear niche and grow the company from zero to over $50k in MMR.
 
Finding an audience for your side business
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/finding-an-audience-for-your-side-business/
Entrepreneurs often underestimate the importance of an audience for their side business. Instead of starting with an idea, building a product, and then checking if this solves a problem for someone out there, I recommend the following steps. This article inspired my second book, The Embedded Entrepreneur. In the book, I expand on the process of finding, validating, and diving into your side business ideas.
 
Finding the critical problem
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/finding-the-critical-problem/
Many bootstrapped businesses only do half the work. They solve a problem, but they don’t address the critical problem. There are a few key properties any critical problem has. If you find an issue that has these properties, you will have an excellent candidate for a successful, profitable business.
 
Finding the most painful problem
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/finding-the-most-painful-problem/
You can solve many problems but still fail to build a business if you’re solving the wrong ones. Pain can come in a million different shapes, but its underlying reasons can be grouped into three categories: Time, Resources, and the Self. The four essential concepts to look out for here are Reputation, Accomplishment, Advancement, and Empowerment.
 
First things first feature prioritization frameworks
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/first-things-first-feature-prioritization-frameworks/
Many companies use some sort of scoring to prioritize their feature development. Intercom uses the RICE method, which scores Reach, Impact, Confidence against Effort. Impact quantifies how much a given feature enables you to reach a business goal. Confidence is a percentage that expresses how confident you are in your estimates about this feature.
 
Forget goals create systems foundations of a sustainable bootstrapped business
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/forget-goals-create-systems-foundations-of-a-sustainable-bootstrapped-business/
A sustainable bootstrapped business is successful when you have found a repeatable, reliable, and resilient system to continuously provide a value-producing product to paying customers at a profit. Having a recipe in place will make the transition from the Preparation Stage towards the Survival Stage less chaotic.
 
Founder mental health pitfalls
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/founder-mental-health-pitfalls/
Entrepreneurs often struggle with who they are, what they should be doing, and proving themselves. Being a self-reliant entrepreneur often requires a significant amount of time and energy. It’s already difficult to find a balance between your personal and professional lives when we have a 9-to-5.
 
Founder stories are powerful assets
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/founder-stories-are-powerful-assets/
Your story is a unique and unclonable asset that can turn from a mere list of accomplishments into an opportunity generator. Every new insight you share adds a building block to your publicly accessible knowledge. Your pioneering efforts will inspire others to “start their thing,” whatever that may be.
 
From founding to exit in two years the feedbackpanda story
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/from-founding-to-exit-in-two-years-the-feedbackpanda-story/
Danielle was teaching English as a Second Language online to Chinese children. She was working 12-hour days teaching while I was working as a Software Engineer for a German company in the IoT space. She would work for two extra hours to write Student Feedback for the parents of the kids she had taught that day. Two years later, we sold the bootstrapped company that grew out of that tool to SureSwift Capital.
 
Fundamentals of a calm business
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/fundamentals-of-a-calm-business/
Calm companies focus on profitability and sustainability. They succeed by growing slowly and deliberately, calmly adapting to changes in the market. This approach is particularly interesting for Software-as-a-Service companies due to their high margins and low maintenance costs. Any business can be calm. It’s just easier for some and harder for others.
 
Fundamentals of a calm saas business
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/fundamentals-of-a-calm-saas-business/
Software-as-a-Service is a business that continuously delivers a software product to its customers. Customers pay a monthly fee for continuous access to the service instead of installing the software on their own computers. SaaS businesses usually have significantly higher margins than other businesses in an economic downturn.
 
Gumroads pricing disaster with sahil lavingia
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/gumroads-pricing-disaster-with-sahil-lavingia/
Gumroad, a platform where creators have been building their businesses by selling their services and products, increased their prices significantly. That caused a lot of backlash in the community, with people threatening to switch to other platforms, and criticizing how that price hike was communicated. Today, Arvid talks to Sahil, the CEO of Gumroad, about what prompted this change.
 
How i approach pricing for a brand new saas
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/how-i-approach-pricing-for-a-brand-new-saas/
Permanent.link is a SaaS service that lets authors sell books through their website. The service is not yet available to the general public. The company is trying to find out how much people are willing to pay for the service. The price is based on the value metric of the customer, not sales figures.
 
How i find twitter content ideas
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/how-i-find-twitter-content-ideas/
Twitter expert and author David Perry has been building an audience of over 50,000 on Twitter over the last two years. He shares the strategies and tactics he uses to come up with relevant and helpful daily content to share with his followers. Follow high-profile accounts that start exciting conversations about topics that people care about.
 
How i fortunately failed to launch an nft collection
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/how-i-fortunately-failed-to-launch-an-nft-collection/
A few months ago, I ran an NFT experiment that failed horribly. I put a lot of effort into creating and minting a few pieces of visual art that I thought would resonate with my audience, and then the whole thing fizzled out. I wanted to see if there was a chance for a self-published writer like me to mint visual NFTs, allowing my readers to support me.
 
How i self published zero to sold a bestselling book on bootstrapping
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/how-i-self-published-zero-to-sold-a-bestselling-book-on-bootstrapping/
In 2018, I was so fully immersed in working on FeedbackPanda, a teacher productivity SaaS that I co-founded with my partner Danielle, that I didn’t have much time or energy to write. After a few months of due diligence and transitioning the business over to the new owners, I finally had all the time I ever wanted. So I threw myself right into my next project: documenting what we did and sharing what we had learned. I decided to commit to publishing one article every week for at least two years.
 
How i use twitter
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/how-i-use-twitter/
Twitter is a great way to build an audience, build relationships, and find opportunities. I started using Twitter regularly to engage with other founders and talk about my work in October 2019, just shortly after Danielle and I sold our SaaS FeedbackPanda. Back in June 2020, just before I released my book, I had 4000 followers. I have since created a Twitter audience-building course called Find your Following.
 
How not to use twitter dms
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/how-not-to-use-twitter-dms/
Too many founders use Twitter like they’d use Google. They find someone they'd like to talk to, send them a Direct Message, and never receive a reply. For many Twitter beginners, those DMs turn out to be freezing cold. The trick to building trust is that there is no trick: it’s built slowly, one interaction at a time.
 
How to do due diligence on your potential acquirer
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/how-to-do-due-diligence-on-your-potential-acquirer/
The moment you allow a third party into your company, you lose a little bit of control. Here is what we did when we received our fist offers for FeedbackPanda. The strategies and actions suggested in this article are based on the anecdotal experience from going through an acquisition process with one company.
 
How to do maximum customer support with minimum effort
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/how-to-do-maximum-customer-support-with-minimum-effort/
Customer service has become a real-time activity as customers expect to receive immediate solutions. At FeedbackPanda, we use Intercom for all three primary modes of customer service: synchronous, asynchronous, and self-help. We also use the Intercom.com app to log in to our customer support system.
 
How to kill your business
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/how-to-kill-your-business/
Many people take advice on how to start a business and don’t apply it to their own business. Here are a few scenarios of questionable choices and why they are likely to backfire. Don't throw your life savings into an unvalidated project that you don't need to validate. A side business is not a full business; you can pull back at any point. Falling prey to the easy-cost fallacy is easy but expensive.
 
How to release as a bootstrapper often early and safely
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/how-to-release-as-a-bootstrapper-often-early-and-safely/
In a bootstrapped business, release often, release early, and release safely. This way, your engineering and release culture will allow you to be nimble, react to customer feedback quickly, and build a stable infrastructure for your product. For engineers, it’s a lot of fun to build, and a great joy to see customers use newly released features.
 
Hyrums law
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/hyrums-law/
At a certain scale, anything you offer will be used by someone out there. It’s easy to remove a feature that nobody is using, but once someone depends on it, will you still remove it? Mozilla just removed FTP support from their flagship product in their ongoing effort to get people to use encrypted communication exclusively.
 
Impostor syndrome and building capital
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/impostor-syndrome-and-building-capital/
Every creator, everyone speaking in public, knows this feeling. It is a part of our brain’s wiring to try to protect us from the unknown dangers that we might attract when we put ourselves out there. Embrace the fear, invite it in, hear it out, and then ignore it. People will follow you because of your vulnerability, not despite it.
 
Infrastructure of a calm saas business
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/infrastructure-of-a-calm-saas-business/
A SaaS business has two major components: its technical product and the operating system that allows you to sell that product consistently. Whatever you build, make it abstract enough to be swiftly replaced. Make it easy to stop working with a tax advisor and shift your data to another system. You don’t want to build something around a particular service only to see them go out of business.
 
Jargon and community
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/jargon-and-community/
In the digital entrepreneurial space, the terms used feel much more in flux than in other fields. Conflicting definitions arise, making it hard to talk about the same things even among people in the same community. The “Audience First” approach to business starts long before you build an audience.
 
Life after a 200mil exit with patrick campbell
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/life-after-a-200mil-exit-with-patrick-campbell/
Patrick Campbell is the founder of ProfitWell, a bootstrapped business that recently got acquired by Paddle for a whopping $200 million. Patrick talks about getting acquired for nine figures, finding your footing as a founder after such an incredible exit, where the online payment industry is heading, and how mental health challenges follow us wherever we go.
 
Lifetime deals and saas businesses
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/lifetime-deals-and-saas-businesses/
CNN.com is hosting a series of live, interactive Q&A sessions with readers. We asked readers to share their thoughts on what they think is the best way to get the most out of the series. Here is a look at what they came up with.
 
Limiting beliefs
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/limiting-beliefs/
Permanentlink allows authors to create links that will still be reachable even when the original link rots away. The Minimum Viable Product is supposed to validate, not to stick around. We are what we put into the work, not what comes of it. More often than not, our worth is determined by the things we produce.
 
Made to stick shaping an extensible product
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/made-to-stick-shaping-an-extensible-product/
You are looking for product–workflow fit. While it’s great to be able to use your product as a standalone solution to their problem, your customers will value it much higher if it comes with two kinds of integrations. Allowing their data to be easily utilized right after using your service will significantly increase your customer retention.
 
Make it easy to cancel
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/make-it-easy-to-cancel/
If you build a SaaS business, you want to have a relationship with every single customer. The relationship with your customer is not transactional anymore: it’s an ongoing relationship. Make it easy to cancel. If people want to cancel their subscription to your product, make that painless.
 
Making tech choices
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/making-tech-choices/
Many technical founders see a new startup as an opportunity to figure out a modern tech stack. The more specific a technical solution, the more likely it will not be optimal. Over-optimized solutions might look appealing, but the moment your business requirements change, you might be left with a technology that is unwieldy and unable to do the job.
 
Managing expectations making good on promises
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/managing-expectations-making-good-on-promises/
An expectation is a belief that something is likely to happen. A promise is something you can directly impact: you fulfill it, or you don’t. An expectation is something that you can neither see nor directly affect. We need to take into account experience, bias, and wishful thinking.
 
Market analysis for calm saas businesses
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/market-analysis-for-calm-saas-businesses/
Many fresh founders start with a product idea. They come up with a service they want to sell, and a product they. want to see built. These founders think idea-first. It results in your customers being an afterthought. If you want to build a calm business, focus on a maximum-validation approach.
 
Mastering email marketing with brennan dunn
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/mastering-email-marketing-with-brennan-dunn/
Brennan Dunn is the founder of Palladio, co-founder of RightMessage, and a general email expert. He explains why email once sent is eventually static. He also explains how email platforms can track and track how people open and open emails. And he explains what most people get wrong in email marketing.
 
Motivation will eventually go away build accountability systems instead
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/motivation-will-eventually-go-away-build-accountability-systems-instead/
Motivation is a powerful initial force. It provides momentum. But motivation alone can not sustain a business. Building a business is a long-term project. That’s where discipline comes into play. Build accountability systems into your day-to-day work. Understand that your work is an act of service that people rely on.
 
Negative reviews are good for you
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/negative-reviews-are-good-for-you/
When people review a product online, they are not necessarily reviewing the product itself but rather how well the reality of using the product matches their perception of what they were expecting. This disconnect between expectation and reality leads to this tension in product reviews. It can be particularly challenging for founders or creators who own the product being reviewed.
 
Not all subscribers are equal how to deal with plans that no longer work
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/not-all-subscribers-are-equal-how-to-deal-with-plans-that-no-longer-work/
When you remove a plan, you have a choice: upgrade all users to one of the remaining plans, or you “grandfather in” their subscription. Grandfathering can be great to keep your early customers around, but there is a risk of underselling your product significantly.
 
Not all subscriptions are equal offer yearly plans from the start
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/not-all-subscriptions-are-equal-offer-yearly-plans-from-the-start/
Most bootstrapped businesses offer monthly subscription plans. Yearly subscriptions allow you to lock in a portion of your revenue in a much more reliable way. Discounted plans can come with a non-refundable clause, alleviating the need to keep funds back for possible refunds.
 
Not in house on reinventing the wheel
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/not-in-house-on-reinventing-the-wheel/
This article is part of The Preparation Stage section of Zero to Sold: How to Start, Run, and Sell a Bootstrapped Business. As a bootstrapped founder, you will have to be scrappy. You will want to spend as little as you can on expenses, particularly when you're just starting.
 
Of tangibility and lawnmowers
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/of-tangibility-and-lawnmowers/
There is something incredibly alluring about tangible results to your work. But for software entrepreneurs, there are few such things. There is no final version of a SaaS business. The only time you could call it “final” is when it’s a dead product.
 
On art and artifice
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/on-art-and-artifice/
Genel Jumalon explores the relationship between art, the artist, the audience, and the role and necessity of intermediaries. We have reached a new plateau when the cultural arbiters start treating the results of prompting an AI the same as crafting a delicate piece of art.
 
On offering public apis for your saas
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/on-offering-public-apis-for-your-saas/
Many bootstrapped SaaS founders think, “Hey, they offer an API, I should do the same’ — But should they really? I believe that there are two answers to this question. For companies in the Survival Stage, adding public APIs is often a risky move. But once they arrive in the Stability Stage, APIs become a growth lever.
 
On re using content
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/on-re-using-content/
Many creators think that re-using content is a cardinal sin. There is incredible value in re-use your content. It doesn’t even take me thirty minutes to turn my blog posts into a newsletter and a podcast episode each week. From one piece of content spring three distinct pieces with different audiences.
 
On referral systems
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/on-referral-systems/
Referrals are not a cheap marketing trick. When done right, they can be a great way to grow your business and provide value to new and old customers alike. At FeedbackPanda, we added a referral system when we raised our prices by 50% on January 1st, 2019. The referral system was supposed to both amplify existing word-of-mouth marketing as well as give our customers a means to offset the increased price of their subscriptions.
 
On saying no
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/on-saying-no/
Saying no to new ideas is the secret skill of successful founders. Every single one of us is torpedoed by new ideas every day. When you’re working on something that takes significant effort to make happen, a fresh new idea might look much more interesting. Say no to features that might distract you from consistency.
 
Open source and bootstrapping
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/open-source-and-bootstrapping/
This week, Mapbox decided to change the license on their popular Mapbox-gl-js library, used by many to power their fancy in-app maps. The terms of using it are different. If you use this map renderer, you will have to pay Mapbox, no matter if you use their tiles for your map or not.
 
Operating a calm saas business
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/operating-a-calm-saas-business/
Justin Jackson has been working on building a calm SaaS business with Transistor.fm. As an experienced founder, he has understood that a company can only run calmly when the people working on it are cared for. He asks himself how to create a calm system for people to work in. His answer? Prioritizing the quality of life.
 
Optimizing your way to a dream exit
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/optimizing-your-way-to-a-dream-exit/
Danielle and I gave a talk at MicroConf Europe 2019 in Dubrovnik. We spoke about the many optimizations and processes that we implemented during our time growing FeedbackPanda to $55,000 MRR. A recording of this talk is now available in the MicroConf Vault.
 
Parasocial relationships imaginary friends of the social network age
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/parasocial-relationships-imaginary-friends-of-the-social-network-age/
When you intimately know the personality, likes, dislikes, and the entire personal history of a person you’re likely in a parasocial relationship. Parasocial relationships are defined by a lopsided perception of connection: one side feels highly connected, while the other might not be aware of the relationship at all.
 
Passive income and entrepreneurship
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/passive-income-and-entrepreneurship/
Passive income is the holy grail of income strategies, and it often feels equally unattainable. Many ideas look good on paper but turn out to be lousy passive income generators. The more independent streams of income you can create, the more you’ll be able to stay afloat when one stream breaks away.
 
Paying the bills while building your first indie business
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/paying-the-bills-while-building-your-first-indie-business/
Many entrepreneurs have found ways to finance their business-building journeys and make ends meet. Instead of quitting our jobs to “go full-time” on our ideas, Rob suggests building a self-sustaining system of small experiments that build a foundation for you to shoot for the big dreams.
 
Permission to follow up the difference between owned borrowed audiences
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/permission-to-follow-up-the-difference-between-owned-borrowed-audiences/
There has been a resurgence of newsletters after decades of exploding social media followings. The boom of newsletters reflects a reversion from “rented’ audiences to “earned” audiences. With social media platforms owning everything —your account, your relationships, even your messages — marketers and entrepreneurs are diversifying their reach away from social.
 
Pivoting in public risks and opportunities
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/pivoting-in-public-risks-and-opportunities/
Pivoting a business is like switching lanes on a busy motorway: there are many things to consider. If you are doing a soft pivot, preferably with an existing audience of early adopters, pivoting in public is the way to go. By pivoting, you risk losing any finances that you currently have in the business.
 
Platform risk
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/platform-risk/
Twitter suspended Jack Butcher's @visualizevalue and @value.com accounts. Twitter doesn't like overlapping use cases when you’re running multiple accounts. There are three tiers to this funnel: rented audiences, owned audiences, and monetized audiences. No matter if you build an audience on LinkedIn, Facebook, Instagram, or Twitter, your audience will always be borrowed.
 
Positioning is where its at
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/positioning-is-where-its-at/
Many first-time founders make the mistake of iterating on their product but keeping their positioning the same. Find the competitive alternatives first, then highlight the unique features you have that they don’t. You will end up with a comprehensive narrative that ties together your unique offering and your customers’ needs.
 
Power of the niche
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/power-of-the-niche/
This article is part of The Preparation Stage section of Zero to Sold: How to Start, Run, and Sell a Bootstrapped Business. In a niche, you will encounter less competition. Your customers will be very similar, and your marketing and sales activities can be turned into repeatable processes.
 
Preparing for the sale from day one getting the documentation right
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/preparing-for-the-sale-from-day-one-getting-the-documentation-right/
Before any acquisition can happen, many prerequisites need to be in place. Structure your business and operations as if you intend to easily hand it over one day. Create a separate Google account for your business to log into the services you use for your company. Keep all of the login details in a 1Password vault.
 
Price is not set in stone strategies for increasing your revenue
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/price-is-not-set-in-stone-strategies-for-increasing-your-revenue/
This article is part of The Survival Stage section of Zero to Sold: How to Start, Run, and Sell a Bootstrapped Business. It’s important to understand that you can always change your prices. Just because you’re starting a new business doesn’t mean you will have to scrape the bottom of the barrel.
 
Pricing for calm saas businesses
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/pricing-for-calm-saas-businesses/
Pricing is never done, and often, it doesn’t work. But there are a few foundational choices you can make to keep your pricing efforts calm and manageable. We’ll look at what dimensions to price along, what kinds of subscriptions to offer, and which pricing models to avoid.
 
Priming your business for due diligence
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/priming-your-business-for-due-diligence/
In preparation for a due diligence process, there are a few things you can routinely update and use. Most of these things have to do with financial and business metrics, while others are legal requirements. One of the first things any interested party will expect you to provide is a Profit & Loss Sheet, often called the P&L.
 
Problem discovery for calm saas businesses
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/problem-discovery-for-calm-saas-businesses/
If you want to build a business by selling a product that people genuinely need, your solution needs to solve a critical problem. The process of problem discovery is your pathway to finding that problem. Solving well-scoped niche problems is much easier than trying to solve something you can’t even describe clearly.
 
Problem validation
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/problem-validation/
The best case is an in-person conversation with an industry expert who has skin in the game and is aligned with your goals. Real-time video communication is preferable to text-based or asynchronous approaches. People will be selfish in many, often unexpected ways. You will need to introduce ideas indirectly by asking about the validity of the underlying problems.
 
Product development for calm saas businesses
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/product-development-for-calm-saas-businesses/
Building a software product is both incredibly simple and excruciatingly complicated. You can build a new mind-blowingly helpful feature within hours, sometimes even minutes. But if you make the wrong technology choices, you might be rewarded with several months of additional work a few years later. Here are a few ways to make this easier.
 
Profit sharing as employee compensation for bootstrappers
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/profit-sharing-as-employee-compensation-for-bootstrappers/
The common way to have employees participate in the upside of a business is through handing them some kind of ownership. Extensive vesting schedules and retention clauses turn equity-as-employee-compensation into a complicated legal labyrinth. Profit-sharing programs are usually quite straightforward: any profit that happens beyond a certain amount is shared with the employees.
 
Properties of an interesting problem
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/properties-of-an-interesting-problem/
Every person feels a problem differently, so it's important to find a solution that fits your needs. A critical problem is both important and urgent. Solutions to critical problems are “must-have” products. A nice-to-have product solves a non-critical problem.
 
Purchasing power parity pricing
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/purchasing-power-parity-pricing/
A Big Mac in the United States costs around $5. You’d have to pay ¥20 for the same burger in China. The exchange rate between the Dollar and the Yuen is not 1 to 4; it’s more like 1 to 6.5. The Purchasing Power Parity Pricing movement is trying to fix this.
 
Real and imaginary responsibilities of a bootstrapped founder
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/real-and-imaginary-responsibilities-of-a-bootstrapped-founder/
A great founder is a leader, a visionary, an expert. You don’t need to be a hero. Set your goals to something you can control, not some platonic ideal of a business. A working product does not have to be perfect. It just has to work enough to be useful.
 
Realistic building in public for introverted founders
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/realistic-building-in-public-for-introverted-founders/
Ana Bibikova, introvert expert and business advisor, shares her tips for sharing your work in public. Sharing your work and process in public can significantly impact the success of your business or creative venture. It can help to build credibility and trust with your audience, gather valuable feedback and insights.
 
Recession
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/recession/
With a recession looming over the economy, it’s a good time to look into what you can do in your business to get through tough times. I’ve compiled this into the AAAH!-Framework, short for Awareness, Anticipation, Adaptation, Hopeful Optimism, and Action!
 
Roadmaps and you building a future together
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/roadmaps-and-you-building-a-future-together/
A bootstrapped business should have a road map for the future. Roadmaps can be internal or external, and can reflect the future of your whole business. There are several formats for roadmaps, and they all have their pros and cons. Having a plan is important, even if you don’t necessarily stick with it all the time.
 
Running a remote first business with marissa goldberg
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/running-a-remote-first-business-with-marissa-goldberg/
Marissa Goldberg is an expert in remote work and guides companies and founders alike towards a future-proof workplace. We’ll talk about productivity, best practices for going remote, and setting up a remote team of all sizes. Here’s Marissa: “Remote work prep was never supposed to be my full time thing. And so in 2018, I started remote work prep, and I love my job.”
 
Saas self talk and many small bets
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/saas-self-talk-and-many-small-bets/
PermanentLink is a SaaS company that uses Stripe to pay customers. The company recently switched to Paddle to replace Stripe. The migration took three hours, but when it was done, the deployment pipeline skipped. The project was broken, and the founder was worried about disappointing his customers.
 
Say thank you
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/say-thank-you/
When we’re praised or receive kindness, we show both physical and psychological reactions. Leading with kindness creates strong and enjoyable relationships. Being kind and grateful is also a wonderful thing to do within your community. It’s a catalyst for more kindness, both towards you and towards everyone else in the community.
 
Scalable customer service for bootstrappers
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/scalable-customer-service-for-bootstrappers/
At FeedbackPanda, we built a highly scalable process for handling customer service. Our customer service strategy was based on three pillars:Offering useful Self-Service as much as possibleConsolidating knowledge as soon as it appearsDocumenting everything to reduce manual repetition and mistakes.
 
Scaling your saas without scaling your anxiety
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/scaling-your-saas-without-scaling-your-anxiety/
Many things work perfectly fine when you’re just starting with your business, and they will continue to be no trouble until you reach a critical mass. Over time, you will inevitably build up expectations about how your business should work. Nir Eyal suggests to recognize internal triggers and “hack back” external triggers.
 
Selfish vs selfless self promotion in communities
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/selfish-vs-selfless-self-promotion-in-communities/
There is a line between self-empowerment and enraging a community. There is a way to self-promote without causing the recipients to frown at what you have to say. If you don’t make your promotion about the people it’s actually for, you will earn distrust.
 
Seller beware pricing models that can break your business
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/seller-beware-pricing-models-that-can-break-your-business/
Two pricing models can be hazardous if not implemented carefully: freemium accounts and lifetime accounts. Freemium can be great to get people to use your product, integrate it, and eventually start paying for it. Lifetime accounts often signal that the business is in a bad financial state.
 
Seven kinds of entrepreneurial debt
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/seven-kinds-of-entrepreneurial-debt/
Seven kinds of entrepreneurial debt: financial, technical, knowledge, operational, relational, emotional, and physical. Financial debt is a common thing in business, and it’s all around us. Many people develop mental health issues because they can’t handle the pressures from owing.
 
Should freelancers offer free trials
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/should-freelancers-offer-free-trials/
Many freelancers have a hard time finding clients, and some have come up with a way of making that easier. The idea is simple: they help me out for a few days, I get to see their work, and then ask for compensation for future assistance. This approach comes with several advantages: the freelancer gets to build a portfolio without needing to negotiate contract.
 
Solution exploration for calm saas businesses
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/solution-exploration-for-calm-saas-businesses/
When you’re building an audience-centric and community-first business, you're delaying finding your business idea and building your product for as long as possible. First, you look into your market, validate the existence of a budget, and zero in on a critical problem to which people need a solution. Then, validate that the underlying solution solves the problem you're tackling.
 
Solution validation doesnt happen in a vacuum how to talk to your future customers
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/solution-validation-doesnt-happen-in-a-vacuum-how-to-talk-to-your-future-customers/
Entrepreneurs need to validate the solutions they create before they can release them. Working on an issue that isn’t critical for our customers is risky, as it might result in a product no-one needs. You need to find out how your solution will impact the existing workflow of your prospective customers.
 
Spreading the word how to do marketing on a shoestring budget
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/spreading-the-word-how-to-do-marketing-on-a-shoestring-budget/
Three components are essential to spreading the word efficiently. They all interact with each other: tribes, water coolers, and word-of-mouth. You can leverage the density of these networks by becoming a part of them. Don't just use them as a marketing platform. Contribute before you advertise.
 
Stair stepping with plugins platforms to build on
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/stair-stepping-with-plugins-platforms-to-build-on/
If you’re a developer interested in starting your own business but are afraid of overcommitting, you should take a close look at building a software business on existing platforms. Building on an established platform means that developers can take advantage of the platform’s existing user base, traffic, and trust to grow their business faster.
 
Standard operating procedures managing your future self
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/standard-operating-procedures-managing-your-future-self/
Delegation is most effective if there is an Operations Manual for the company. Standard Operating Procedures describe every activity that needs to be done in great detail. SOPs include crucial information to contextualize the process, so even if an employee performs a task for the first time, they know the why and the how.
 
Sunk cost fallacy engineering
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/sunk-cost-fallacy-engineering/
This week, I ran into the same issue twice. I had built something that was working great, only to scrap it for another solution a few days after. We don’t want our efforts to go to waste, even when they allowed us to learn something important in the first place.
 
Tech stacks and indie hacking
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/tech-stacks-and-indie-hacking/
Best Tech is Established Tech. Using an established generalist makes sure that your product will be scalable. When in doubt, choose established and familiar technology. You want your foundations to be solid to work with. If you pick a language or framework built to solve one particular problem, be absolutely sure that you won’t need it for anything else.
 
The 5 books that helped build and sell a bootstrapped saas in under two years
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-5-books-that-helped-build-and-sell-a-bootstrapped-saas-in-under-two-years/
Tim Ferriss' The 4-Hour Workweek is a guide to a new life for bootstrapped entrepreneurs. The book is aimed at liberating the reader from the chains of gainful employment and all the limitations that come with a regular full-time office job. If you follow the steps and advice in the book, you will end up with a fully automated business that you can work on for a few hours a week.
 
The bootstrappers plight
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-bootstrappers-plight/
Many founders choose to create a lifestyle business. They work five days a week, eight hours a day, maybe some overtime here or there. For most founders, work begins the moment they wake up, and it ends when they fall asleep. Here are a few conversations you might encounter as a freshly minted founder.
 
The boring truth of successful products that survive
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-boring-truth-of-successful-products-that-survive/
Simplicity is achieved by reducing complexity or not introducing it in the first place. Every professional tool excels at one particular job. As a bootstrapped founder, you want your product to do the same. Your money and your time should be put to creating as much value as possible.
 
The creeping nature of stress for a saas founder
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-creeping-nature-of-stress-for-a-saas-founder/
 feedbackpanda.com co-founder Jon Jackson says running a SaaS was a lot of fun in the beginning. But over time, stress and anxiety crept into the day-to-day of running the business. "I had developed “email notification PTSD” from the customer messages and the monitoring alerts"
 
The dos and donts of the minimum viable product
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-dos-and-donts-of-the-minimum-viable-product/
The Minimum Viable Product (MVP) is your first contact with your customers. It has two main functions: to allow your early adopters to gauge the value of your service and to enable you to charge them money to gauge their sincerity. To have your MVP leave a great first impression, you will need to scope it sufficiently and time it well.
 
The emotional journey of a bootstrapped founder fear of disappointing your customers
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-emotional-journey-of-a-bootstrapped-founder-fear-of-disappointing-your-customers/
The Emotional Journey of a Bootstrapped Founder is a series of articles written by FeedbackPanda founder and founder of the FeedbackP Panda podcast. In this series, I talk about how certain situations and incidents can evoke strong emotions and how to deal with them. I will explain how I reflected and reframed those thoughts and feelings, then suggest actions for immediate and long-term improvements.
 
The forever transaction
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-forever-transaction/
Businesses are missing out on long-term relationships with their customers, says Alistair MacIntosh. Businesses are forced to push programs designed to trick people into buying more than they should, he says. Macintosh: People don’t care about the store’s policy; they remember being rudely interrupted.
 
The goals of audience building
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-goals-of-audience-building/
Many people see audience-building as a means to an end, writes Andrew Keen. Keen: It’s not just about your product or business, it is also about you as the entrepreneur behind the project. Building an audience allows us not to lose everything because our previous attempt didn’t work out.
 
The grief and loss of selling a business
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-grief-and-loss-of-selling-a-business/
Danielle Simpson, co-founder of FeedbackPanda, talks about selling her company. Simpson says she felt like she had given away her catalyst for passion. Simpson: "I had something else queued up in the back of my mind — the need to write"
 
The introvert superpower with ana bibikova
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-introvert-superpower-with-ana-bibikova/
Ana Bibikova is a defender and cheerleader for introverts in entrepreneurship. She knows what it means to be skeptical of loud and salesy marketing tactics. We’ll talk about being introverted, working with introverts, and serving introverts.
 
The line between stealing and being inspired
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-line-between-stealing-and-being-inspired/
This week, a Twitter friend asked: “where’s the line between being inspired by the competition and stealing?” We don’t have a clear code of conduct for this in our community, says Andrew Keen. Keen: People who find inspiration in your work won't take anything away from you by using it.
 
The monkey and the pedestal
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-monkey-and-the-pedestal/
Entrepreneurs and creators often face the challenge of tackling complex and ambitious goals. The path to achieving these goals is often unclear, making it difficult to show progress to investors, stakeholders, and even the entrepreneurs themselves. The key to success is prioritizing and tackling the most difficult and important tasks first.
 
The myth of the finished product
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-myth-of-the-finished-product/
Every day, millions of software updates get dispatched. With updating being so easy, no product is ever finished. Even when you release what you think is a feature-complete version of your product, it will only be “done” for a while. Your product will never be finished because your audience and their problems are moving targets.
 
The myth of the immediate payoff
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-myth-of-the-immediate-payoff/
Business is an infinite game, and the biggest success stories are those who play the game the longest, not those who “win.” If we are focused on “the next thing,” we lose sight of the bigger picture. It’s hard to context-switch, and going from short-term to long-term is particularly cumbersome.
 
The performative nature of building in public a view from the inside
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-performative-nature-of-building-in-public-a-view-from-the-inside/
When you build in public, you’re performing. When you type your updates into that Twitter prompt, you are thinking about how you can “most authentically show something” to your audience. It’s a performance that I believe to be worthwhile and empowering, but nonetheless artificial and strategic.
 
The power of omission killing features for fun and profit
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-power-of-omission-killing-features-for-fun-and-profit/
If you add features indiscriminately, you will end up with a gigantic bloated mess of software. Removing the cruft from your SaaS product is akin to pruning a hedge. Every reason to remove a feature from your product boils down to feature creep. Here are a few examples, both with reasons why they should be removed and how they come to happen.
 
The power of repetition
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-power-of-repetition/
There are several under-appreciated benefits to repeating yourself as a strategic approach to audience-building. Repetition helps overcome situational, experiential, and relational timing problems. It can help distracted readers, give people the correct information at the right time, and allow new audience members to get the most of their relationship with you.
 
The power of the narrative when building in public
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-power-of-the-narrative-when-building-in-public/
A good narrative has a few key components: a setting in which the story unfolds,key characters that we want to relate to,a strong plot that drives the story,a comprehensive theme,and a lot of conflicts. The true masters of building in public are skillfully crafting such a narrative around themselves.
 
The rewards and perils of being your own customer
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-rewards-and-perils-of-being-your-own-customer/
If you center your business around a need that you feel in your own life, you’re customer number one. It’s much easier to escape analysis paralysis when you solve your own problem. You can quickly determine if any given feature belongs in the core product or if it is a nice-to-have.
 
The risks and illusions of the post exit retirement
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-risks-and-illusions-of-the-post-exit-retirement/
Many entrepreneurs who thought they could retire to get back to work are wrong. Selling a business shifts what gives them purpose and passion and allows for lasting impact. Post-exit life isn’t a candy shop. We suddenly get incredibly bored, devoid of anything to do, and we have no one to talk to.
 
The role of trust in remote work
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-role-of-trust-in-remote-work/
At the center of any successful remote work relationship lies trust. Many businesses have a tough time trusting anyone once they can’t see them at their desk in the office. Remote work is throwing a wrench in the time-honored tradition of butt-in-seat-hands-on-keyboard.
 
The saas market maturity paradox
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-saas-market-maturity-paradox/
Software-as-a-Service products solve problems in their markets in a particular order. When a previously underserved industry becomes interesting for SaaS companies, they jump in and make it possible for specific problems to be solved efficiently for the first time. This is the ultimate blue-ocean strategy:You have no meaningful competitors.You see the incredible impact of your solutions right away.
 
The shape of a problem in the wild
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-shape-of-a-problem-in-the-wild/
Complaints are a clear indicator of a pain, a strongly felt one at that. If you see regular complaints about a particular issue, you might be looking at a very critical problem. While complaints are usually very emotionally charged, asking people for help is a more somber affair. When people ask for help, they have exhausted their repertoire of solutions.
 
The toxicity of growth hacks
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-toxicity-of-growth-hacks/
Growth hacks are a way to quickly increase an audience’s size and connectedness. At its worst, growth hacks are about getting as many people as possible to engage with your product. The web3 industry suffers from many seemingly genuine projects that leave trusting participants scammed, cheated and disappointed.
 
The two goals of audience building
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/the-two-goals-of-audience-building/
Many people see audience building as a means to an end. It’s not just about your product or business. It is also about you as the entrepreneur behind the project. Building an audience allows us not to lose everything because our previous attempt didn’t work out.
 
Too little too much advice and how to take it
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/too-little-too-much-advice-and-how-to-take-it/
As someone who often hands out advice to clients and mentees, I see it being handled in many ways. The fruitless way of taking in advice is to apply it verbatim. The flipside of this behavior is to completely ignore advice without giving it a chance. If you don’t understand what happened before, during and after an event, just following the steps of a solution will not produce meaningful results.
 
Too many eyes
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/too-many-eyes/
 Buffer closed off its public revenue dashboard. Other bootstrapped companies have gone through the same progression of opening and later closing off their revenue data. Two common patterns emerge when you read the explanations and comments made by those who resorted to turning off their public dashboards. Either the data is incomplete and paints a picture that is distorting the reality of the business or the publicly available gives the competition a one-sided information advantage.
 
Twitter the gathering how and where to find the right followers
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/twitter-the-gathering-how-and-where-to-find-the-right-followers/
Before you can attract the right people, you must know where they are already gathering. The fastest way of understanding the outline — the internal structure — of any community is to find the ‘core group’ and observe their interactions with the other community members. Follow the people who follow them, who are likely friendly and kind people.
 
What founders can learn from professional wow gamers
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/what-founders-can-learn-from-professional-wow-gamers/
Every time Activision Blizzard releases new dungeon content, the world’s best guilds join the “Race to World First” They grind through days, sometimes weeks, of trying to overcome the extremely hard challenges that the game puts in their way. Professional gamers can teach us a lot about reframing and expectation management.
 
What founders can learn from the facebook outage
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/what-founders-can-learn-from-the-facebook-outage/
Facebook's 6-hour outage was a direct consequence of dependency risk. Facebook could not prevent such a major outage even with becoming their own domain registrar. Use the customer service conversations that will undoubtedly pop up to understand where your customers felt the absence of your product the most and use that to make your product and business more resilient.
 
What founders can learn from twitch streamers about building in public
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/what-founders-can-learn-from-twitch-streamers-about-building-in-public/
The video game-streaming platform Twitch grew by 83% in 2020. Viewers watched 17 billion hours of gamers playing their games in front of their audience that year. The most successful streamers are the ones that show up every day. Successful streamers often have dozens of long-time followers.
 
What founders can learn from web3 community building and what they cant
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/what-founders-can-learn-from-web3-community-building-and-what-they-cant/
The third web, the web3 movement, is all about alignment between the leaders and the members of a community. Most web3 communities run a dual-platform approach: Discord as an in-group community platform and Twitter as a public space to operate in. These communities organize themselves privately with plenty of access-restricted channels (either Discord, Slack, or on messenger platforms like Telegram)
 
What watching gamers fail for days can teach you about entrepreneurship
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/what-watching-gamers-fail-for-days-can-teach-you-about-entrepreneurship/
In the World of Warcraft community, there is a “Race to World First,’ where groups of players compete to be the first-ever to bring down large enemies on the highest game difficulty. Every dungeon boss starts with 100% health points, and players try to whittle it down to zero, thus defeating the opponent.
 
When privacy and customer value clash
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/when-privacy-and-customer-value-clash/
PermanentLink is a new SaaS service that automatically redirects readers to content. The company is looking at adding up-sells and delayed forwarding to its service. The feature could be used to help authors make more money from their books. The service is still in the prototype stage and is not yet available to the public.
 
When should you go from side project to full time
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/when-should-you-go-from-side-project-to-full-time/
When should you go from side-project to full-time? What are the significant catalysts that speed up this process? Two myths are constantly propagated that tend to distort this elaboration process. The concept of “job security” and the idea of ‘validation guaranteeing success’ are two extremes.
 
When you reach your limits growing a company beyond the founders
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/when-you-reach-your-limits-growing-a-company-beyond-the-founders/
This article is part of The Stability Stage section of Zero to Sold: How to Start, Run, and Sell a Bootstrapped Business. As a bootstrapped founder, you are at least partially a developer, designer, and marketer. You must instill the voice and tone of your early employees into the way you speak to customers.
 
When your business gets cloned
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/when-your-business-gets-cloned/
Mike Rubini found out that his product Groouply had been cloned. This made Mike wonder if he should stop building in public. Building in public is building trust at scale, he says. You show up every day, and people can see that process unfolding. This makes you stronger and will allow you to attract people who want your work.
 
Why competition is good for business
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/why-competition-is-good-for-business/
Entrepreneurs thrive through competition, says Andrew Keen. Keen: Competition can make you perform better than you ever thought you could before. Competition is validation, mainly if they succeed in building a business in the space. If the space can sustain a few businesses, it can likely sustain yours.
 
Why founders end up unemployable
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/why-founders-end-up-unemployable/
After setting out on their first self-directed business journey, many founders have a hard time imagining themselves back on the clock as an employee. Most Indie Hackers operate solidly on this digital side of the knowledge economy, and they struggle to break the bonds of self-imposed creativity suppression.
 
Why reading fiction is important for entrepreneurs
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/why-reading-fiction-is-important-for-entrepreneurs/
Fiction is a great way to learn about your customers and the people you want to serve and empower. The more fiction you read, the more you will learn what makes a narrative interesting. Every good story has a hero’s journey at its core, and the better a storyteller the author is. The social dynamics of those groups will differ wildly from what you know.
 
Why you shouldnt sell your business
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/why-you-shouldnt-sell-your-business/
Damon Chen is the founder and CEO of Testimonial.to. He talks about why some founders don't want to sell their businesses just yet. He explains how to determine when it's time to get acquired and when you should start replying to offers. He also explains why you might not have reached the potential of exiting your business yet.
 
Writing for founders
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/writing-for-founders/
Writing is a skill that, when honed, is immediately applicable to every single thing you do. The better you get at expressing yourself clearly, the more precise your process documentation will get. Writing provides a platform for you to showcase your professionalism and attract potential customers or partners.
 
Writing on the side with hassan osman
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/writing-on-the-side-with-hassan-osman/
Hassan Osman is the host of Writer on the Side and himself a prolific writer. We talk about crafting books that sell (and keep selling), self-publishing on Amazon, and how to write while having a full time job. Here’s Hassan!
 
Writing your way to clarity with jakob greenfeld
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/writing-your-way-to-clarity-with-jakob-greenfeld/
The Bootstrapped Founder Podcast is hosted by Arvid Kahl. This week, Arvid talks to Jakob Greenfeld about how to make friends and influence people. We also discuss how to unlock critical thinking by writing and what it means to give yourself permission to do things your way.
 
You dont need to be an extrovert to build in public an introverts perspective
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/you-dont-need-to-be-an-extrovert-to-build-in-public-an-introverts-perspective/
Building in public is by definition a public act, and if you’re anything like me, you prefer keeping a low profile. When I started taking sharing my journey seriously, something changed. The more I went to meetups and conferences, the more other people considered my opinions and gave me positive feedback.
 
You may be barking up the wrong tree re evaluating your audience
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/you-may-be-barking-up-the-wrong-tree-re-evaluating-your-audience/
Most of your customers will likely enjoy your product, some won’t. When you notice that something is wrong, you can usually trace it back to one or more of your assumptions not being aligned with your audience. This kind of misalignment can be grouped into three types: conflicts arising from members of your audience, how you solve it, or how your product works.
 
You want a tribe
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/you-want-a-tribe/
A tribe is a group of people that are connected to each other, an idea, and a leader. To flourish, a tribe really only needs the means to communicate and a shared interest. Tribes leverage social media and networks to find a platform and allow their members to provide insights and distribute knowledge.
 
Your initial pricing will never be right
https://thebootstrappedfounder.com/your-initial-pricing-will-never-be-right/
At the beginning of your business, revenue serves one purpose before any other: validation. Early pricing validates your business and initial product. Later pricing optimizes overall revenue. Price should reflect what you think the value of using your product is for your customers. A good strategy to measure the value you provide to your customers is to determine their central value metric.
 
